# Lecture 3

## Combinational Circuits

### Comparator

Check if two values are equal

Example: making 4-bit comparator

Put XNOR gates between A3 and B3, between A2 and B2, etc. Then put an AND gate
in front of them.

### ALU

Performs a variety of different calculations. It takes two inputs and takes
another input to know which functions to perform.

### Tri-State Buffer

It enables gating of different signals into a single wire. Used to connect CPU
and Memory to a data bus.

### Logic Simplification

Boolean algebra is used to simplify the logic and to reduce the cost and
complexity of the circuit.

K-Maps are also used to easily get the simplest form a boolean expression.

## Sequential Logic

### R-S Latch

Data is stored in Q. S and R are control inputs. Made with cross copled NAND
gates.

S and R should never be both 0 at the same time.

### Gated D Latch

It makes sure S and R are never both zero at the same time. It has a D signal
and a Write Enable signal.

### Register

To store more than 1 bit, registers are used. Use more D latches and put them in
parallel. There is only one write enable signal for all latches.

### Memory

It has many memory locations and each has its own unique address to read and
write data. Address is selected using address decoder. Output is taken using
multiplexer.

### Clock

A sequential circuit changes its state on the positive or negative edge of a
clock cycle. And the state remains same during the whoel clock cycle.

### Finite State Machine

FSM has different states and they are represented by circles in the state
diagram. And the arrows represent inputs to go into the next state.

### Flip Flops

Flip Flops have a clock input and it is an edge trigerred device and only
changes its state on the edge of a clock cycle.
