# Lecture 5

## HDL

### Top Down Design

There is a top module and then we identify the sub modules. And we keep adding
sub modules until we have leaves, which can't be further divided.

### Bottom Up Design

First we design the leaf modules and sub modules, then we make the top module.

We should test every module separately.

### Module in Verilog

It is the basic building block. We first write the name, then the inputs and
outputs, then the functionality of the module.

There can also be multi-bit input output bus.

### Gate Level Modelling

You define how all the gates or submodules are connectex to each other. It is
used with module instantiation.

Verilog supports basic logic gates as predefined primitives, for and, or, not.

We use wires to connect everything together.

### Behavioral Modelling

It contains the functional description of the circuit. The level of abstraction
is higher.

### Conditional Assignment

We can use turnary operator for conditional assignment.

### Expressing numbers

We can write the number of bits like this: 3'b101

This means 3 bit binary number and its value is 101

h means hexadecimal and d means decimal.

We can also use Z for floating values, for example for tri state buffer. We use
X for unknown value.

### Hardware Sythesis

Vivado will synthesise our verilog code and generate a hardware from it. It will
synthesise according to the constraints that we give it.

### Simulation

We can also simulate to check if our code is working properly. In the simulation
there are waveforms that show the values.

### Sequential Logic

We define a clock signal to trigger sequential logic during simulation. We use
always block. in the sensitivity list, we can mention posedge clk or negedge
clk.

We use <= for non-blocking assignment.

Asynchronus reset can be trigerred independently from the clock, Synchronus
reset is only triggered at the edge of the clock.

### Always block for combination circuits

We can use things like if statement and switch case to make it easy to describe
combinational circuits in the always block.
