# Lecture 6

## Timing Delay

Delay in the circuit is caused by capacitance and resistance.

So there is input of value rising from 0 to 1 and falling from 1 to 0.

It is called propagation delay.

Propagation is also affected by supply voltage and temperature.

We add the delay of every logic gate to get the overall delay of the circuit.

## Glitch

One input transition can cause multiple output transistions with different
delay.

We can ignore glitches if we only care about the long trm steady state output.

## D Flip Flop Timing

The Flip Flop must be stable when the value is sampled at the clock edge.

Setup time: time before the clock edge that data must be stable (i.e. not
changing)

Hold time: time after the clock edge that data must be stable

Aperture time: time around clock edge that data must be stable (ta = tsetup +
thold)

If D is sampled when it is unstable, a meta-stable state can occur.

## Clock Skew

Clocks also have delays. The clock does not reach all parts of the circuit at
the same time.

Clock skew is the difference between two clock signals.

Designers must keep clock skew to a minimum. It requires an intelligent clock
network across the chip.

## Testing

1. We check only functionality at the high level.
2. We check only timing and power at the low level.

### Testbench

We write a testbench code to give inputs and then we check the outputs in the
waveform to verify that the cirucit is working correctly. It is easy to design
and can easily test a few specific inputs, but not scalabale to many test cases.
